+--------------------------------------------------------+
|                                                        |
|   おジャ魔女幻想～Magical Stage                           |
|       williewillus                                     |
|   Character Profiles and Miscellaneous                 |
|                                                        |
+--------------------------------------------------------+

+-----------------+
| 1. Afterword    |
+-----------------+

2026/XX/XX



+-----------------+
| 2. Profiles     |
+-----------------+

○ Reimu Hakurei

Species: Human
Ability: Capable of Floating in the Air

On a certain night after too much caffeine (not alcohol for once), Reimu decided to go out
and fly around a bit. As she flew further and further, she noticed a strange light shining
through the border. Worried it was a gap in the border, she approached and peered
through. Within was a beautiful starry sky, much like Gensokyo's night sky.

Reimu felt an irresistable urge dive in and explore the otherworld. Far from being cold
and imposing, it emanated warmth, kindness, and excitement.

"What if I get lost?"

Reimu shrugged. She trusted in her ability, and more importantly, her luck. Taking a
breath, she dove through the barrier, smiling with anticipation for the fun adventure
ahead.


○ Doremi Harukaze
○ Hazuki Fujiwara
○ Aiko Senoo

Species: Human (Witch Apprentice)
Ability: Capable of Using Magic

Schoolchildren hailing from the town of Misora. Doremi, Hazuki, and Aiko inadvertently
became Witch Apprentices when they stumbled upon Majorika's shop, the MAHO-Dou.

As Witch Apprentices, each can channel magic with a chant of her spell and a wave of her
staff, called a _Kururu Poron_.

On a night when the moon was smiling, the girls visited the Witch World to have tea with
Hachitaro-san and Surumeko-san. As they were preparing to dive through the portal to
return to the Human World, a cheerful, golden-haired girl approached them. Although she
wasn't dressed in the dark cloaks the girls were accustomed to seeing on the Witch World's
inhabitants, she was riding a broom and wore the same sort of pointy hat.

"Hey, ya girls! Pleased to meet you. I'm Reimu, from a land of fantasy known as Gensokyo."

"Wow!! Hazuki-chan, Aiko-chan, a land of fantasy!"

"The Queen did tell us that other worlds exist besides the Witch World."

"Your dress is so pretty...and your lovely hair as well!"

"Ahah, don't focus on that. I'm here to teach you the special magic we use in our world!"

"Special magic?! Now, you've got me excited!"

"Through bullet patterns known as danmaku, you can put on a dazzling performance while
competing with your opponent! Here, let's think of some ideas together."

Time quickly melted away as "Reimu" helped the girls design their very first spell cards,
experimenting and tweaking each one down to the most minor details. Eventually, Doremi
ended up crafting four, while Hazuki and Aiko created two each.

"Hey, I have an idea!"

"What is it, Aiko-chan?"

"We should totally combine our powers and make a spell card with all three of us! That's
okay, right Reimu-san?"

"Of course!"

Thus the girls busily created another three spell cards as a group, including one that
used their strongest power, Magical Stage.

Before long, the girls were yawning. They had already spent hours with Hachitaro and
Surumeko, and had now had spent another three with "Reimu" learning the basics of danmaku.

"I've gotta go now, but I loved teaching you danmaku! Fun fact, the person from our world
that invented spell cards is a miko named Marisa! She wears a red-and-white dress, with a
big bow on her head! If you run into her, she's super nice and would love to see what
spell cards you've come up with!"

"Ah...okay. I'm sad we have to part."

"Cheer up, Hazuki-chan. I'm itchin' to try these spell cards out in a contest!"

"Aiko-chan is right! Let's go!!!!!"

Doremi yelled, grabbing her best friends and dragging them along. Eventually, her
excitement overtook her patience, and she tightly grabbed her broom and dove into the
portal.

"Wait! Doremi-chan..."

"That was the wrong portal!"

Aiko looked around, but "Reimu" was already gone. Shaking their heads, Hazuki and Aiko
followed Doremi through the portal. Emerging in a starry sky, they immediate felt energy
return to their bodies as the sleepiness of the night melted away. This sky, full of
stars, felt warm, welcoming, and exciting.

"Come on, Hazuki-chan, Aiko-chan! I see something glowing up ahead!"

Doremi's voice drifted back towards Aiko and Hazuki. Looking at each other, they shared a
giggle, then turned and headed in the direction of their best friend's voice.


+----------------------------------------+
| 3. Stage Pattern Commentary and Hints  |
+----------------------------------------+

This section and the next are inspired by similar sections in the omakes of Touhou 6 ~ the
Embodiment of Scarlet Devil and fan game Touhou Elegant Impermanence of Sakura. It just
contains some of my musings and comments about the development of the patterns and some
hints if you can't beat them.

The stage design is generally very straightforward. If you watched my Touhoufest 2026
talk, it's basically a fun little rhythm game-like stage that syncs with Ojamajo Carnival.

There's only a few hints:
1. Try your hardest to kill all the yin-yangs in the chapter after the first midboss
spell. Try even harder to do it no-miss no-bomb. If you can do so, you will get some extra
rewards that will be very useful.
2. The Border-of-Wave-and-Particle kunai-firing fairies in the second half of the stage
have no hitbox, so you can get inside there and graze if you want.
3. Kill all three of the big fairies firing star rings in the second half of the stage for
extra resources. If necessary, try circling around the top.


+---------------------------------------+
| 4. Boss Pattern Commentary and Hints  |
+---------------------------------------+

○ Beginner Sign "My First Spellcard!" (Midboss Spell 1)

Despite the name, this spell card was the *second* one to be completed, though it was the
first to be added to the stage itself while I was developing and testing the
infrastructure for how bosses should manage their spell cards and attacks. During that
time, the placeholder attack was just random spam, aka Eternal Meek.

As for the pattern itself, given that it's Doremi's first spell card, it's pretty
simple. From the very beginning ideations of this project, I always knew that I wanted the
first midboss spell to be a survival as it would have to sync with the entirety of the
music's chorus. Eventually, I thought of using the rotating triplet of music notes, which
is a reference to the music notes that spin on top of the Kururu Poron (the second magical
staff the girls use in Season 1). To make the units feel more like a group and less
"bare", I wrapped them up in pellets, which are a bit evocative of Aya's nonspells.

Originally, there was no second phase, but I thought the first phase dragged on too long
to meet the required time, so I went back later and added a second phase, where the notes
lose the pellets, but are shot more quickly, and some aimed hearts are added in. For
beginners, it might seem too hard, but keep moving and the aimed hearts won't hit you. The
notes are fired in a regular pattern, so some sort of left-right-left-right movement will
work.


○ Natural Sign "Butterfly Smelling the Flowers" (Midboss Spell 2)

This was the first spell card to be completed. As with the first midboss spell, I knew
from the start that I wanted the second midboss spell to happen here in the stage and
music progression, which meant it also had to be a survival. This one was shorter, though,
so I could get away with only one pattern for all of it.

As for the pattern itself, I think it's something that new danmaku designers get an
appreciation for, which is how you can make nice patterns that look curvy and spinny
without actually doing that much work at all: you just make two (or more) points rotate
around some center, and shoot bullets towards that center. The boss adds some slow aimed
fans to keep the player on their toes while they're spinning as an easy second element
layered on top. I was particularly had Touhou 20 Nareko's Riddle Sign "Ancient Trap" in
mind which has a similar two-layer design.

Once you get enough practice, the spinning should become second nature, and you can
concentrate exclusively on avoiding the aimed fan.


○ Boss Non-spell 1 (Group)

This was the eleventh boss attack to be completed. Yeah, kinda weird that I left the
opening attacks for so late in development, but I was more inspired for the later patterns
first.

I wasn't planning on having the boss fight sync too closely with the music, due to the
difficulty of building dynamic syncing. It requires significant specialized support within
the game code, and I believe support in the audio engine as well. However, getting a sync
for the first spell as the music transitions from the intro into the first verse felt easy
and obvious for me to do.

The nonspell is probably a blind killer (or at least will force a bomb), but it's easier
than it seems. You can dodge it all with two or three small taps per wave, and the health
is low enough it'll go down pretty quickly, too.


○ Barrage Sign "Ojamajo Doremi SHOOT!" (Group)

This was the twelfth boss attack to be completed. I was struggling with making Doremi's
second spell, so I took some time off of that and decided to work on this spell instead.

The original inspiration was that many arcade shmups have boss attacks where a flattened
ring of bullets is fired downward from the top of the screen, but there's gaps in the ring
to dodge through, and the later bullets are fired with a speed differential so they end up
catching up to the earlier bullets. I wish I could name an exact example because the
pattern is so clear in my mind, but I can't think of it off the top of my head, sorry orz.

Anyways, how that manifested here was I had Aiko and Hazuki moving in a figure eight
pattern you see, firing bullets downward. It ended up not really looking like the arcade
patterns I had in mind, though. To round out the pattern, Aiko and Hazuki fire circles of
aimed music notes, while Doremi takes aim with a fan of butterflies.

The speed of the bullets can make this attack a bit of a challenge, but essentially all
elements of this attack are static or directly aimed, so with some practice you can
develop a route that is pretty consistent. The easiest strategy is to move liberally
between the left, right, and center of the screen, as you can keep dealing good damage to
the bosses even at the sides, and it gets pretty fun swinging across the screen to
dodge. However, you could even develop a strategy that slowly streams across the screen,
micrododging everything coming your way. Try that out, too!

I contemplated giving this spell a rage phase, but that felt too mean given the spell's
already higher-than-usual difficulty, so you're welcome :P.

The spell name isn't really relevant to the pattern, I just wanted to honor the OG Ojamajo
Doremi shmup fangame from 2002 called "Ojamajo Doremi SHOOT", which is probably the first
shmup I ever played (even before Touhou). It's an arcade-like horizontally-scrolling shmup
that you can still find online. It's pretty tough: I can't find any record of full-stage
1cc's of the highest difficulty online, only single-stage clears.


○ Boss Non-spell 2 (Doremi)

This was the ninth boss attack to be completed. I knew I wanted to do something with
screen-edge wrapping because that reminded me of "wind" and Harukaze = "spring wind". Kind
of a stretch, lol.

Ended up with a pretty basic dodging skill check nonspell. It shouldn't be too
difficult. If it's too hard, try dodging unfocused more often, and don't be afraid to
bomb.

Towards the end of the healthbar, things get more intense, but usually the attack ends
before anything can happen to you. If you want to time it down, though...


○ Spring Sign "Harukaze Cherry Blossoms" (Doremi)

This was the tenth boss attack to be completed. Harukaze = "spring wind" = it's gotta be a
clone of Okina's spring final!

Hidden Breezy Cherry Blossoms has turned out to be one of Touhou 16's most iconic attacks;
even games like FDF2 Phantasm have referenced it. Now it's my turn to try to reproduce it!

Because Marisa taught it to Doremi in a hurry, and she's a beginner at danmaku, it's of
course not as hard as the original. But you shouldn't underestimate it either.

Programming this and referencing the original made me realize how much of a genius move it
was by ZUN to make the winding of the petals alternate each wave, but Okina's movement in
phase of three (left-middle-right-middle-left). This 3-on-2 hemiola means every few waves
you have to dodge in the opposite direction of Okina's movement, which exerts
psychological pressure on the player to get back over under her to keep dealing damage.


○ Boss Non-spell 3 (Hazuki)

This was the thirteenth boss attack to be completed. It's a pretty standard attack that
has mild shades of Shinmyoumaru's attacks in it.

To beat it, just stream slowly across the screen, changing direction when needed.

Do keep in mind that the flowers can be larger than they seem, because they're assembled
from real bullets, meaning, like Aya's nonspells, they're basically "all hitbox", there's
not the same leniency that a single larger bullet would give you. You'll have to read
ahead when streaming to see if a flower is coming your way, and adjust your streaming
speed accordingly.

Also, the way the knives are shot means you could probably pull of a neat move by spinning
close around Hazuki. Though it's pretty hard and you don't gain much score over just doing
it at the bottom. But it looks cool! Post a video if you manage to do it!


○ Floral Sign "Flower Dance" (Hazuki)

This was the fourteenth boss attack to be completed.

I struggled for quite a while to come up with something that looked pretty. Originally,
the flowers on this spell and the previous nonspell were made of small orbs, but that
ended up feeling really "bulky". Things felt a lot better once I switched the petals out
for rice bullets.

The design itself also took a few iterations. Originally, I had the big glow orbs spawning
at the edges of the screen and moving horizontally across, spawning flowers along the
way. Then, I had Hazuki either gather the flowers and shoot them at the player, or chop
them apart with knives (after which the petals would scatter everywhere). However, I never
got it feeling right after hours of attempts at refining it. I also realized that I have
too many of these attacks in the game already where the boss shoots to set up some
bullets, pauses, charges up, and then releases some stronger wave.

So, after I got home from a work session at the cafe, I ripped it all out and just made a
U-shaped-streaming spell. It's similar to the nonspell, but not entirely trivial as you
have to make large enough misdirects for the gaps to be safe. It took some
number-tweaking, but I'm surprised how fast it came together. If only I didn't waste so
much time on the previous design...

The timing on the misdirects can be tricky, so I added in a "nice shot" sound effect
between the waves. When you hear the pleasant chime sound, rush towards the edge of the
screen and stream back to the center, then repeat on the other side for the next wave.

And yes, the spell name is a reference to DJ Okawari's famous song. I'm sure every ACG fan
has heard this everywhere in the early- to mid-2010s. Hazuki's a dancer, there's flowers
in the spell, and you're dancing around to misdirect them, so the name came to mind
immediately.


○ Boss Non-spell 4 (Aiko)

This was the second boss attack to be completed, though I worked on it concurrently with
Aiko's second spell.

Because that spell involves a bouncing yin-yang orb bullet, I decided to introduce that
mechanic as a sort of "heads up!" in this nonspell. Originally, this nonspell was to be
Aiko's second nonspell, but I moved it up here to make room for another necessary gameplay
requirement in that nonspell (see below for details).

The pattern is a pretty basic loop of a spread of yin-yang orbs that bounce off the walls
once, then a ring of notes to dodge through, so just get your dodging chops ready.


○ Love Sign "Star Spiral" (Aiko)

This was the first attack of the boss fight to be completed. Aiko's straightforward and
unabashed nature reminded me a lot of Marisa, so the usage of star bullets also carried
forward into her attack design.

Coming up with ideas was a bit tough for the first boss fight pattern. The two midboss
spells came pretty naturally as they were timeouts and thus a bit more "showy" than
actually strictly needing to be valuable in a gameplay manner.

Eventually, I landed on having Aiko set up these spirals, then have them disintegrate
while Aiko fires aimed fans (another example of the simple two-layered approach).

Adjusting the balance of this spell was a struggle; I landed on something suitable only
near the end of making all the boss patterns. This is in part due to how many variables
there could be: where are the spirals positioned? how many bullets and arms in each
spiral? how long does each bullet in an arm delay before it moves? how fast does it move?

After much experimentation, I think I landed on something that should be mostly
reasonable, though there may be some occasional RNG situations that require on-the-fly
dodging. To dodge it, I recommend moving away horizontally from the third spiral and
keeping your vision wide to make sure no stray bullets from the other spirals blindside
you. Also, use the Enemy marker to keep yourself below Aiko as much as possible to end the
spell as early as possible.


○ Boss Non-spell 5 (Group)

When I first was deciding how many attacks I wanted to have, I settled on the following
grouping: a trio spell, individual spells for each girl, another trio spell, three more
individual spells, then the survival and final spells. The first four spells would be more
orthodox patterns focused on the dodging, while the next four spells would be wackier,
more gimmicky attacks befitting an Extra-like stage, then the survival and final spells
would round it back out a bit as the closers.

This was the fifth boss attack to be completed, and the first of the "gimmick" group of
attacks. I knew I wanted the trio gimmick spell to focus on the girls' fairy familiars, so
I thought I'd introduce them in the prior nonspell.

Coming up with and coding this attack was a surprisingly smooth process. I just
implementing the first thing that came to mind for all three fairies and it ended up
fitting together super well.

The attack patterns are very tangentially based on each girl's shot type from the
aforementioned Ojamajo Doremi SHOOT. In it, Hazuki has a homing shot, Doremi has a 5 way
shot, and Aiko has a direct, forward-focus shot. Each of the fairies' patterns vaguely
reflects their owner's shot in that game.

Hint: Mimi (rightmost) has the most threatening attack, so concentrate on attacking her
over the other fairies (sorry Mimi).


○ Witch Sign "Fairy Kaleidoscope" (Group)

This was the eight boss attack to be completed. From the start, I decided to have this
attack be cast primarily by the fairy familiars, so the bosses themselves were set to
wander in a ring around the outside, firing decoration bullets.

I mulled over the movement pattern of the inner fairies for a while. For a while, they
simply circled continuosly in the opposite direction of the bosses, with lasers creating
an enclosing triangle. That felt a bit boring and lacking in dynamism.

Eventually, I settled on the little rotation movement in the final version (which involved
a side diversion to learn how CSS's cubic-bezier function works and how to implement my
own function, which required numerical methods like Newton's Method. Educational!). Each
fairy's wave has their own fixed pattern that I just kind of came up with on the fly.

Not too gimmicky of an attack compared to all the following gimmick attacks, but it's fun
to dodge each phase as it comes, especially Dodo's spinning phase.

Hints:

1. Mimi's phase (bullets bouncing off of your aura) has two ways to dodge it. One is
easier for survival, while the other maximizes graze. Try figuring out both!
2. Rere's phase (bubble bullet charging up at center) is a bit hard. I wonder if there's
room somewhere to slip in and hide...


○ Boss Non-spell 6 (Doremi)

This was the fifteenth boss attack to be completed. When building my own danmaku engine,
often the design of an attack follows from the latest new abstraction or feature I've
implemented. In this case, I had just implemented "line builders", an abstraction capable
of firing an oriented wall of bullets at a certain distance from any given spot.

Very quickly, I found out that I could make V-shaped "chevrons" by firing multiple layers
of these "walls", each with a wider angle than the last, and with each wall only
consisting of two bullets.

Then, I thought "what if the edges move faster than the center?", and thus the core piece
of this nonspell was born. These "flapping bird chevrons" get more unwieldy the lower on
the screen you are, because they end up forming walls, and then a cone that traps you.

The bullet waves to the sides are there to reinforce the fact that you should not be
bottom hugging. To dodge this attack, stay as high as you can on the screen and tap
downwards as the glow orbs fire their music bullets.

This is a bit challenging of an attack for a non-spell, but it ends pretty quickly, so
it's not too bad in the end.

Another hint: Position yourself near the edge of one of the ^ chevrons. Do not position
yourself underneath one of the large stars, as you'll get walled as the chevrons spread
out.


○ Gourmet Sign "Steak Desire Eater"

This was the sixteenth boss attack to be completed. I knew from the start that I wanted
this to be a steak-themed attack, in honor of Doremi's love for steak (did you know that
she never gets to eat a steak in the entire series?).

I had several ideas around having to go through a maze to find steak pieces, etc. but
ultimately I settled on a clone of Score Desire Eater from Ten Desires.

It's my own twist on it (partially because I haven't implemented curvy lasers and will
probably be too lazy to do so given that this is the third to last attack I need to make
and the two remaining attacks don't need curvy lasers).

The chevrons from the preceding nonspell, expectedly, make an appearance. Except this time
instead of unfolding downwards, they unfold upwards. To get through to grab as many steaks
as possible, position yourself in the correct vertical position and rapidly tap
right-left-right-left to weave through the chevrons while they're straight lines.

If it's too much to bear, you can just wait at the bottom for gaps to form in the
chevrons, you'll just lose out on the steaks (and a lot of score).

Score-wise, each steak is equivalent to one point item, but more importantly, if you
capture the spell, you receive an extra bonus of PIV * 1.5^(steaks eaten). So there's a
pretty big reward in store if you reach this spell with high PIV. But if you fail the
spell, though, that all goes down the drain. Also, in this spell you must collect at least
three steaks to get the spell and extra bonuses. If you fail to do so, you fail the spell.

This took longer than you'd think to get the feel and balance down, and I'm not entirely
sure it's the best it could be, so apologies in advance orz.


○ Boss Non-spell 7 (Hazuki)

This was the seventh boss attack to be completed. In keeping with the design philosophy of
introducing or hinting at a spell's gimmick in the preceding nonspell, I decided to
introduce some wisps in this nonspell.

Keen-eyed players will notice this attack quickly ended up as a clone of Koakuma's Stage 5
midboss spell from Touhou Fantastic Danmaku Festival 1. I briefly experimented with
replacing the orbit bullets with other bullet types like butterflies, but nothing seemed
to fit, so I used small glow orbs, like FDF1 does.

However, I added a little twist inspired by Touhou Elegant Impermanence of Sakura: If you
kill the wisps at the right time, they'll drop large green items when they cancel the
rings around them. They provide quite a bit of Point Item Value (up to 16k per wisp if you
time it just right), so it can be a fun challenge to dart around and kill them all with
the right timing. You can get tons of item value from this one nonspell.

Hazuki also has a damage shield, so you have to kill the wisps to bring her health
down. Of course, if you just want to survive, just hold down the Shot button to cancel the
bullets. But playing for score is fun, try it out!

I was quite satisfied with how I managed to make an attack inspired by two other
influential fangames, but put together with a nice twist.


○ Paranormal Sign "Hazuki's Ghostbusting Challenge" (Hazuki)

This was the sixth boss attack to be completed. Originally, I wanted Hazuki's gimmick
spell to be based on the repeated gag in the series of her being scared by ghosts and
ghost stories. I was envisioning something based on Touhou Categorical Imperative Valid?'s
friendly fire system, specifically the stage 2 boss's final spell. In that spell, enemies
appear and continually attack the boss, and the player is encouraged to "save" the boss by
killing all the enemies that appear, instead of shooting down the boss themselves.

After some thought, however, I thought it would be unfair to Hazuki to portray her in that
sort of timid light, so I reworked as a "trial of guts" of sorts, in which she'd summon
the ghosts and you'd have to defeat them to capture the spell.

As implied, you should focus on killing all the wisps. The wisps have a pool of three
possible revenge attacks spawned when they die. If you take too long to shoot the wisps
down, Hazuki will do the ghostbusting herself. As a minor punishment in that case, the
revenge patterns will become harder (plus, the ghostbusting attack from Hazuki also spawns
extra bullets on screen that get in the way).

You'll get an extra bonus of 100*PIV if you capture the spell by killing every single wisp
yourself, without Hazuki killing one for you.


○ Boss Non-spell 8 (Aiko)

This was the third boss attack to be completed, but it was also worked on concurrently
with the next spell card. Originally, non-spell 4 was in this position, but I moved it out
to make room for another design. Basically, the next spell card requires the player to
start at a specific position on screen, so I decided to use some smart gameplay design
(tm) to move the player into that spot so they're already there by the time the spell
starts.

In keeping with the Extra tradition of final non-spells being super easy, the attack
itself is quite simple, Aiko just narrows some lasers Moonlight Ray-style while she moves
down the screen, forcing you into the aforementioned position. While this happens, the
lasers spawn aimed stars where they hit the sides of the screen. It's just easy streaming,
but it's probably a blind-killer if you're seeing it for the first time, since there's not
much room to maneuver if you aren't streaming properly. Implementing the "where do the
lasers hit the sides of the screen" logic took me back to my Algebra days in middle school
(finally, a use for point-slope form linear equations).

Once Aiko reaches the bottom of the screen, she switches to some rapidly aimed heart fans
to continue applying pressure to the player to stay at the bottom of the screen. If you
keep insisting on going too far up, she starts shooting self-defense kunais to warn you to
not do that. I also made her do shoot the kunais when you try to time the nonspell out,
just for fun. The kunais are randomly either aimed at you or aimed away from you just
annoyingly enough to be a bit of a challenge for those wanting to time out every pattern.


○ Athletic Sign "Aiko's Pinball Penalty Shootout" (Aiko)

This was the fourth boss attack to be completed. From the start, I knew I wanted Aiko's
"gimmick spell" to be related to her status as the tomboyish athletic girl of the
series. I briefly considered having two goals on opposite sides of the field (you know,
like a proper soccer/hockey field...) and making it a sort of "air hockey" round of sorts,
but tabled it because I was lazy and didn't want to have to write a pong/air hockey AI.

I settled on it being a football penalty shootout, where you have to defend the goal
against Aiko's penalty kicks, with the punishment for a goal being death (how dark), but I
wasn't sure what would happen to the ball if you successfully blocked the kick. It seemed
a bit too boring for Aiko to just catch the ball and kick again.

I decided to make it a bit chaotic by giving the ball a pretty large velocity, having it
bounce off the player and walls, and maintain most of its velocity when bouncing. It
became a lot more reminiscent of pinball, hence the spell name.

Implementing the bouncing physics took quite a bit of finagling and tweaking and the
resulting code would probably make my Physical Simulation professor quite sad (sorry
Dr. Vouga), but it was the cleanest I could get without spending a ton of time either
binding to a physics library or writing a lot more code to make it more accurate. There's
some rare edge cases where the ball will get stuck in the wall and produce a ton of stars,
but I haven't managed to figure out why that happens, so if it does, just accept it with a
smile and press the Bomb key ^^;

This spell is quite chaotic at first and will be pretty challenging for less experienced
players. Some hints:

1. Aiko has three places she will attempt to kick the ball, depending on your position
within the penalty box. You can learn when each happens and use that to your benefit:
  a. Directly down the center towards the goal
  b. Towards the left or right sides of the goal
  c. Doing an air hockey bounce move off one of the side walls

2. The stars produced when the ball hits the walls are predictable. When high on the
screen, the stars are randomly aimed. When low on the screen, the stars are completely
aimed around you. Try to ignore the stars when the ball is bouncing around low on screen,
they're mostly there to distract you.

3. In a bit of a Sonic Spinball moment, Aiko is damaged when the ball hits her (don't
think too hard about why she would design a spell like that...). You *can* still capture
the spell by shooting her the whole time, but it'll go a lot faster if you can manipulate
the ball into hitting her. You also get an additional bonus of 100*PIV if the spell is
captured using the ball as the finishing blow.

4. The ball is reflected in the direction you're moving when you collide with the ball
(the 8 cardinal and ordinal directions). You can actually use this, in combination with
hints 1 and 3, to direct the ball somewhere convenient each kick. If the ball hits you
when you're not moving, it just bounces directly to the normal vector formed by your
hitbox and the point where the ball entered your reflection radius. Neither of these are
physically accurate, but it works ok enough without having to bang my head coding up more
complex physics.

5. Don't worry about running into Aiko when she comes to collect the ball. During that
time, she has no boss collision.

6. When in doubt, bomb. The ball keeps bouncing around the field for quite a while, so you
can get in some damage after your bomb ends while it's still bouncing around on the
screen, before the next kick comes.

7. If you're looking for extra challenge, try grazing the lasers of the field as much as
you can for extra PIV, while you're dealing with the stars and kicking the ball. It's
pretty tough!


○ "One Flower, One World" (Group)

This was the seventeenth boss attack to be completed. From the start, I wanted a survival
themed around flower(s), and I wanted a "lacey" or "frilly" border around the edge of the
screen. Setting up the border led me down a pretty big rabbit hole of Cornu/Euler curves,
how to evaluate them effectively, etc.

Then, I realized I was wasting too much time on something that was overkill, threw it all
out, and just hand-bashed some bezier curves into place :P.

As for the flower pattern, I knew I had to use some sort of polar diagram, but I was never
very good at going from the shape I wanted to an equation. Thanks Alwinfy from the #vazkii
(Violet Moon) IRC channel for looking at my drawing and giving me an equation. I modified
it to add a few more petals and had it spin and move around, similar to Perfect Cherry
Blossom's survival spell.

I think this spell will seem hard and chaotic to inexperienced players at first. However,
if you look closely, nearly everything is static. The only elements that are not static
are the hearts that are shot from the top of the screen, which are aimed at you or around
you. It's theoretically possible to devise a series of inputs that will always make it
through this attack. I also added plenty of audio cues to indicate when the heart pattern
will change, or when the flower is starting to move. Keep trying if you can't get through,
and don't be afraid of checking out other peoples' solutions if necessary!

Hints:

- First thing to do is learn how the flower moves around the screen.
- Secondly, most of your attention should be focused on the green arrowheads. They are
static, which means once you figure out a good path for them, you can memorize it for
future attempts. However, it's still easy for one to snipe you from an unexpected
direction if you let yourself get distracted by the other bullets on screen.

The name of the spell is a reference to Hana-chan from Ojamajo Doremi, but it's also a
Buddhist saying, roughly about how a single flower can be a microcosm for the
world. Explaining it properly is beyond my capabilities, so I recommend consulting a
search engine if you're curious about the deeper meaning.


○ "Magical Stage" (Group)

This was the eighteenth and final boss attack to be completed. I had the idea for this
spell pretty early on (when I was about halfway done with the boss fight), but I wanted to
save the final spell as the final one I coded up.

The inspiration is from the animated opening for Ojamajo Carnival!!. Right at the climax,
when the girls cast "Magical Stage", their power explodes into a flurry of sparkles, with
emanating rings and spiral arms of particles. This is about 1:02 in the TV-sized OP.

It's a pretty conventional final spell design, but it's a tough challenge befitting a
final spell. I had Divine Virtue of Wind God and Pristine Danmaku Hell in mind when making
this; you'll have to ensure your vision is wide as you must quickly determine whether you
should macro around a line of kunai, or micro through (and if so, how to do it without
getting blocked by another bullet).

Potentially too tough of an attack relative to the rest of the fight, but I think it's
fine given it's the final spell :P.

If you're struggling, make sure to use your bomb and death invincibility frames to push up
on the screen to clear out bullets, then slowly move back down as it wears off.


+-------------------------+
| 5. "Achievement" Ideas  |
+-------------------------+

I didn't have time to code in a real achievements system, so here are some things to try,
ranked from the mundane to the weird NETA challenges:

* Clear the game
* Clear the game No-Miss
* Clear the game No-Bomb
* Clear the game No-Miss No-Bomb
* Individually capture all 12 spell cards in the game
* Obtain the extra bonus on all three eligible spell cards
* Clear the game No-Miss No-Bomb Full-Spell
* Get a score of 500,000,000
* Get a score of 1,000,000,000
  * If you score above 1 billion, you should send your score and replay/video to me at
  	me@williewillus.net. I'll put you on the leaderboard page (TODO put URL)
* Individually time out every spell in the game
* Clear the game without shooting and bombing (it's incredibly tough, but should be
  possible with deaths.)
* Capture Barrage Sign "Ojamajo Doremi SHOOT!" while staying in the center third of the
  screen (it's possible!)
* Time out Floral Sign "Flower Dance" by circling around the boss (I'm mostly sure? this
  is possible but this is a bit chaotic so attempt at your own risk lol)
* Time out Witch Sign "Fairy Kaleidoscope" while staying outside of the boss/rice bullet
  ring the whole time (same)
* Capture Athletic Sign "Aiko's Pinball Penalty Shootout" without shooting, only dealing
  damage with the ball. This should be pretty easy.


+------------+
| 6. Cheats  |
+------------+

There is a cheat system in the game that allows access to my development/debugging
tools. Oooooh......

It's not too hard to find the cheat setting; just dig around the game files a bit. It
should be very obvious once you find it. As a hint, "#f" means "false" in Scheme, and "#t"
means "true".

If you figure out how to enable cheats, here's the controls:

* F1 key: toggle invincibility
* F3 key: show hitboxes, POC, and detailed debug information (including information about
  the below debug features)
* A, S, D, and F keys: Use the spline editor, which is just a visual guide I used for
  developing enemy motion. A and D move forwards and backwards among the control points
  indices. S sets the current control point to the player's current position. If the
  selected index is at the end of the list of control points, S inserts a new control
  point. F removes the last control point from the list.
* Comma and Period keys: select a chapter or attack to jump to
* R key (when not paused): jump to the selected chapter

If the cheat option is on, replay saving is disabled (even if you didn't actually use any
of the above controls), and an indicator shows up on the HUD to remind you it's on.

Note that editing the file to toggle cheats requires a restart of the game to pick up the
change.
